# Project Name: 9-mer Finder using MapReduce

## Description
This project is designed to find 9-mers in a human genome using the MapReduce framework. It utilizes Hadoop Streaming API and consists of mapper and reducer scripts written in Python. The input data for the project can be downloaded from the following link: [hg19.fa.gz](https://hgdownload.soe.ucsc.edu/goldenPath/hg19/bigZips/hg19.fa.gz).

## Folder Structure and Input Files
The project folder should have the following structure:
```
- project_folder/
  - input/
    - hg19.fa.gz
  - Mapper.py
  - Reducer.py
```

## Mapper.py
The `Mapper.py` script reads each line from the input file through standard input and appends it. It then creates the 9-mers from the input data.

## Reducer.py
The `Reducer.py` script receives key-value pairs from the mapper script. As Hadoop sorts the mapper output before assigning tasks to reducers, the reducer script simply combines the key-value pairs.

## Execution Steps
1. Create a new folder on your local system.
2. Download the input file `hg19.fa.gz` from the provided link and place it in the `input/` folder within your project folder.
3. Place the `Mapper.py` and `Reducer.py` scripts in the project folder.
4. Run the following command to execute the Python scripts using the Hadoop Streaming API:
   ```
   $ hadoop jar <path_to_hadoop_streaming_jar> \
     -input /path/to/project_folder/input \
     -output /path/to/output_folder \
     -mapper 'python Mapper.py' \
     -reducer 'python Reducer.py'
   ```
   Note: Replace `<path_to_hadoop_streaming_jar>` with the actual path to the Hadoop Streaming JAR file, and `/path/to/project_folder/input` and `/path/to/output_folder` with the appropriate paths on your system.
5. After the execution completes, you will find the output files in the specified output folder.

## Output
The output of the MapReduce job will be stored in the specified output folder. The output file will contain the results of the 9-mer finding process.

## Additional Steps
To sort the output file, you can use the `sort` command as follows:
```
$ sort -k1,1 <output_file> > sorted_output.txt
```
Replace `<output_file>` with the name of the output file generated by the MapReduce job.

Please note that the above instructions assume you have Hadoop and Python installed and properly configured on your system.

Happy coding!
